Alright we are going to take a look at
the code required to delete a recipe.
But first, to give you a little tip here.
I've gone over to application dot
properties and I edited a line here to
change the log level of the package guru
dot springframework. Now in a
future module of course, I'm going to
look at logging a lot closer but I just
want to change out that log level and we
can see here, I've been adding in a
little debug statements. So now
we're going to get that in the console
because we did change this to the log
level of debug and now the debug
messages shall display. So let's go ahead
and take a look at deleting a recipe
now. And like everything else we have
started off writing our unit test for it. So I did follow test-driven development
and here's my test method for our
service. So it's going to work in
conjunction with the RecipeRepository
which is supplied by Spring Data JPA.
Now you can see there on line 103, I put
in a comment that there's no when
because this meant that actually returns
back void. So we don't have to give it a
when Clause because we're not expecting
much of an interaction but we do want to
verify that it was actually invoked. And
you can see on line 105 there I am
verifying that the recipeRepository
is called one time and the deleteById
method gets invoked with anyLong
property. So I could actually specify the
value there if I wanted to but in
this case I think that's a good enough
for our properties or our purposes. So we
can actually follow the good old, given
when and also say then. So that's our
behavior driven development so that's
like a specific behavior. That's a good
way to organize your tests when you
you're going through that. So that is my
test for the service layer. Now let's
take a look at the RecipeControllerTest and that starts on line 97. This is
new task action and you can see I am performing
a get against recipe, the ID value and
then the action of delete and I am
expecting to get a redirect back for the
status code and I'm expecting to get
directed back to the root. Now
this is important, I've had this trip
people up in the past about why I'm
using the get method and this is part of
the HTML standard for forms and
links. It is what we have to work with and
actually you cannot do a delete method
within HTTP unless you're using
JavaScript. So obviously if we're doing a
RESTful interface we'd be doing the
delete HTTP method. But here we're
limited with HTML so we have what we can
work with. So we're setting up a simple
link to go ahead and delete that recipe.
So these are my two tests. I can run my
test make sure everything is in the
green. So our delete method did pick up two
additional unit tests and you can see
that we do have one failure. So let's
take a quick look at that. And that's a
quick fix there. So remember we
reformatted that. So we want 2 and show. That was a
mistake that I caught before but I
missed it on this branch. Now we'll see
that these do run all green. So now
all our tests are done. Let's go ahead
and take a look at the implementation of
this. This is really a simple
implementation so we go into the RecipeService and down here at the bottom, get
deleteById. The ID to delete and that
calls the Spring Data JPA repository to
delete that from Hibernate. And we
did pick up one additional method there
on our interface. Let's come up here and
take a look at the RecipeController and
this should look pretty familiar
to you right now. So we're mapping to the
URL recipe,
taking out the PathVariable of ID, right
out of the path and we do have the verb
delete there. So just be consistent with
the other mappings that we've done. I did
a log there to see debug log to see the
ID that we are deleting and we call
service and do a delete. Now one
other thing I did just for
consistency, I did go in and GetMapping
and PostMapping. This is a good habit
to do when you're working with Spring
MVC is to limit the methods that can be
used against them. So right now without
this, so without this any HTTP method
would be supported by these. Now we're
saying I'm only expecting get methods. So
let's go ahead and run this now. So come
up here and we will start it up. You can
see that we are up in live. I'll come on
over to Chrome and let's resize this a
little bit. Come on resize it so that we
can see the log. So I'm going to refresh
this. You can see that getting an index
page and I'm in the service, now I'm
going to come over here and click on the
delete action and you can see that it's
deleting id 2 and if I refresh this we
can see that id 2 is no longer being
returned. So that did in fact get deleted
from the database. If I want to go over
to H2 console, I could do that and prove
that to you but I'm going to assume
since it is no longer displaying on the
screen that we have successfully deleted
that.